So we're recording right now.
I'm all set, thank you.
So if you just say who's talking, say, this is Alaa.
This is Alaa, yes.
This is Alaa.
Okay, this is Alaa.
I'm an architect here in the construction monitoring unit of the project of Lutteca Alexandrina.
In the beginning, I want to tell you about some point of view in the site.
Can you stop it for a moment?
I want to thank you.
Help me when I listen, so don't worry about the pictures.
So I don't have to spend my time taking notes.
Okay, no problem.
And I have a record of it here, so I can go back to it.
Okay.
Now we have the project area consists of three main buildings.
The first building is a library building, which is shaped like a circular.
Okay?
Something like that.
Second building is the planetarium.
Yes, it has a spherical shape like that.
And the third building is the conference center, which is already existing here.
Which I entered, yes.
Yes, you have visited it already?
I didn't visit, I just entered it.
I walked into it.
Yes, okay.
And we have another separate element, which is a footbridge, called the Esterian Bridge, coming like that, coming from the university in the back,
Universities here?
Yes, Universities here.
The University of Alexandria.
Yes, of Alexandria, yes.
Faculty of Commercial and Faculty of Science, Faculty of Science.
Okay?
Faculty of Education.
The bridge coming through the building.
Okay?
Parallel to the conference center.
Going to the Eastern Harbor.
Here, here is the scene, yes.
Go ahead.
Yes.
The idea of the zen is new.
This library, the zen of the library itself has a strip in the middle here.
This is called school area, with the toilets, elevators,
What is it called again?
What is that word?
Core area.
Core?
Yes, core.
Or the heart, the spine of the building.
The heart of the building.
Yes.
The surface area.
How do you spell that word?
C-O-R-E.
Oh, core.
Core.
Okay, core.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Core.
Yes, okay.
Okay.
That area, for readers area, and for
This is one space, yes.
When we make a section in that area like that, okay, it's like different floors, shaped like that.
And I will see this when we walk through?
Yes, of course.
We'll try to see it, okay?
Here, it's like a balconies.
The man can stand here, can stand in the edges, okay?
And in that one,
this is a reader or reading area in the back this is the storage that area already exposed to the roof which has the indirect light coming from the sun something like that okay for all the reading or the reading area it's okay you got the idea of the building that the reading area is like an amphitheater
yeah has many balconies the one in the top can see the one in the bottom okay yes the overlap between floors it's a storage area storage of books storage of books yes book storage area yes okay let's go to the other side of the building here you'll find the closed rooms okay just for administrations for
translations offices or professor's offices it's a closed room like that like we are black okay here this is a design let's go outside and see exactly what is going on in the site and i'll show excellent two stages first stage for foundation second stage for
Like you see here in the picture, you'll find the first part is May 95.
It was gathering and parking.
Here in June 95, some of the excavations were started, some equipment next month.
Here more equipment, some of the sea parks appeared in the picture, and you'll find here this
some of the boundaries of the building.
Here's also some enforcement, some digging and civilization work.
And here, in that picture, you'll find a big farm wall surrounding the building to protect it from water pressure coming from the sea.
And here you'll find 600 piles at the foundation for the building.
Do you have a firm footing?
Is it rocked down below?
Yes, yes.
40 meters below the sea level.
All these foundations come through to hit the petrol.
More than... Around 40 meters.
How much poured concrete, do you know?
It's very hard.
Because this is the first stage.
But look at the arm, we'll tell you about this.
Because we already see it.
Okay, good.
And here we start to make isolation inside the building, okay, and here we start the sourcing.
The end of 32 December 96, just the dowels and steel parts coming through the foundation to start the sourcing.
Okay?
Let's go inside the building.
So the project starts in December of 95.
That's where construction begins.
The 32nd stage ended.
December 96.
But it started in December.
May 95.
Oh, my hat.
No problem.
Do I need one?
No, no.
Look now.
If you want to see that you see, you can see it from here.
Yes, come over here.
Here, with this perspective, when the roof is off already, we remove the roof here.
We will find the balconies.
This is the edges of the balconies.
This one is the reading area.
The one underneath is the book storage area.
And here, there are two balconies for VIP to see the whole space with the library.
On the other side, you'll find the closed area.
The closed area will be the space.
General view from up.
You will see exactly the library spanning from the earth, spanning like that, circular shape, the conference, the planetarium, and this is the footbridge.
The planetarium is for exhibit, for shows, for a style like... Yes, yes, especially for sky, and global and universal details.
Okay.
Okay, let's go outside.
You really think you're going to be done in a year?
Yes, not so.
When do you start the finishing?
Yeah.
You have to start the finishing and then... Can I go to?
Four floors.
He puts 30.
Wow.
OK?
It's pretty impressive.
Yes, of course.
Like you see here, the roof starts on the fence block already.
This is a canvas.
And we have approved it already.
And we'll start complete.
Go ahead.
I understand.
OK, OK.
We'll start complete the roofing.
The expansion already started down there.
We will check ourselves now.
That's a planetarium already.
That's the point.
Now what is that building over there?
This is the conference center.
That's the conference center.
Like this thing one.
The building here will be surrounded by a reflecting pool or reflected pool from three directions surrounding the building.
Here I can see that they are from wall.
There's one what?
That they are from wall.
That wall surrounding the building is protected from motor pressure.
From the ocean?
From the sea.
See?
Yep.
And the area between the three buildings will be cultural plaza.
It's called cultural plaza.
Cultural plaza.
Where the entrance of the conference center and the entrance
the library entrance to the interior in one place called such a plethora.
See?
Like you see here the plethora, the welding of steel parts and the cladding will come mixed up.
The Arab contractor and style for fetish are working so fast.
And we hope we finish that next summer.
Thanks.
That was the ending, the top of the pageant.
No more construction.
How many books were sold?
This is with Dr. Zahran.
I don't know if that was the administration question.
Yes.
Okay?
But you will find in the brochure, they are written about four million dollars.
That's what I wrote.
Four million dollars.
And we have a plan.
Dr. Zarath put a plan for this project.
I think per year we have to put a certain
We have to collect a certain number of sources.
We'll go down just here and see exactly from the side.
Do I need a hat?
Yes, I'll bring it to you.
Okay, thank you.
So now we're entering... Not all these things.
We'll be under the water.
The level of the water will be here.
I see, yes.
This is the reason you put some kind of foam.
You move the foam and put the socket flat.
Yes.
Oh, this is a nice picture.
This is nice.
This will be stacked area.
Reader, for reader.
Reader area.
And the one... He trans for handicapped.
Yes.
Oh, this is nice.
What's this?
Okay, as you see here, the balconies, one, two, three, three, the leader, and the knees of the college area.
Do me a favor, take a picture of me here.
You push this button to see the green light and then that puts you in focus and then you shoot.
No, no, no, no, leave that alone.
Just push it gently and you'll see a green light and then when you see the green light, shoot the picture.
with the background thank you just to show people that i was in here to prove it well this is a nice this is a great picture right here i do all my own photography
very good thank you you'll imagine how thick it is oh yes it's going to be wonderful these are great pictures because a year from now nobody will be able to get these pictures yes of course yeah within one month maybe we'll know yeah so the development here will be very nice very nice picture from here yes
All these teams, just testing here.
Then using the tower crane, lift it and put it on the collar.
See?
Yeah.
Anything with a question about the construction, I can answer.
I'd love to know how many tons of concrete you've used.
Oh!
You want exactly, exactly... Approximately.
Approximately, okay.
For first four, for first ten, I think, but you have to be sure to look at that, for 80 cubic meters.
Eighty?
Eighty.
Cubic meters?
Yes.
So this is for everything?
This is for first case, foundation.
Second case, which is now, it's about 65 cubic meters.
With the foundation, we put a lot of concrete.
That's a lot, right?
Yes, of course.
65,000.
Yes, and 80,000.
Very important.
Yes, of course.
Remind me.
I said, jeez, 80, isn't it?
Maybe this is a new measure unit that I don't know about.
Yes.
The water is going so fast.
It's a little high-tech.
Yes.
And do you have any photographs like this that I can have?
No, you find anything for sure.
Yes.
That I can use for the magazine.
Do you know about your coming here and your visit tomorrow?
Yes.
Oh, yes.
This was arranged by the embassy in Washington.
Yeah.
But he got called off to Cairo at the last minute.
So...
At the office, then they called here and then they've arranged for me to see him tomorrow.
Okay, okay.
So, we're doing this today instead of tomorrow.
Maybe he will bring you tomorrow, maybe, because then maybe something you want.
Yeah, sure.
Whatever.
Okay, this is the toilet, you need the toilet.
I'm all set, yes.
Okay, and I'll bring you.
Okay.
And if you could tell me, sure.
Do you want the brochure in English or French?
English, yes.
Yes, we can reproduce that.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Okay, so is that pretty much it, would you say?
What is in the conference center?
Is there anything else you see in the conference center?
The conference center consists of three or four halls.
Four halls.
How many people?
1,700 seats.
The great hall is 1,700 seats.
That has a big stage.
1,700.
It has a big stage that should suit dancing, orchestra, music, plays.
None of the work of the library will be done there.
I mean, the library itself will be in this facility that you just showed me out here.
The books.
It's a conference center.
It's built since many years.
Oh, that's not new?
No, not new.
So what is new is just the library and the planetarium?
Yes.
Like I told you before, three buildings.
The one is already existing.
When was that built?
I think it has a long story.
It started since 20 years ago.
20 years ago, but it started working since 5-6 years.
Something like that.
You say a long story means it took a long time to get it done.
Yes, yes.
I'm an old naval officer.
I know these problems.
Where do we think the original library was?
Are we close to the ancient library?
Like you see here in the map.
Yes.
Here it goes the Royal Court in that area.
The library, the ancient library, it is not in the same location, but somewhere here in this royal coast, but not exactly.
in the same modern library.
Not the exact site but around it.
But nobody knows.
There's no evidence.
There's no archaeological evidence.
No.
But we know exactly somewhere in that world court.
This is all this Alexandria.
Out front here on the ocean there's a statue.
I'm sorry.
It's twice I've known that.
I'm from Massachusetts.
I live in the Atlantic Ocean.
I'm sorry.
What is that area down here?
Is that archaeological excavation?
Yeah.
Is there anything to see here?
If I were to go down there?
I think we will not be able to see anything there.
Yes, it's under the sea.
And I think they brought some monuments from them and it's in the Romanic Museum.
We have here a museum, Alexandrian Museum.
We are about to build a museum initially for the sunking.
Sunken?
Drown?
Yes.
Sunken?
I don't know the exact workday.
Oh really? Okay.
They would bring the package from... Leave them here. We have a...for thankfully this.
So if I wanted to, if I've got some time this afternoon, if I wanted to get a feeling, where was the old lighthouse?
the lighthouse lighthouse by the castle of Kaite.
Is there anything to see out there?
If I were to go out there?
You can see it, yes.
If you come outside, I will see exactly the exact location of it.
Because when it's already demolished or destroyed, I think by Ezekiel, they felt a castle.
in the foundation of that lighthouse.
And that's the castle that's on there now?
Yes, yes.
Is this the castle?
Yes.
They use the stones from the lighthouse and put that castle.
Can tourists go out there?
Yes, yes.
Can I take a taxi or something?
Yes, but I think they open up to 13 times, I think up to 12 o'clock or 1 o'clock.
I don't know exactly.
They're closed now.
Well, you can see from outside.
From outside, yes.
There's nothing to see if you go out there.
Go inside.
I'd love to see.
So if I were to go there, I'd get signed.
Go there and check, but I don't know exactly.
Yes.
So I can take a taxi there now?
Taxi.
What should I tell the taxi?
Carried by.
Carried by cattle.
They killed a lot of them.
A lot of them.
Give them three pounds or four or five pounds of them.
five pounds good very good enough okay that does not that much but how much to ride around in the city I think the metropole so I'm doing good I think okay just like five back just point it
And that's where the lighthouse was.
There must be a nice view within here where I can get some nice pictures.